========================================
mediacurator 1.0.1 Release Notes
========================================

Highlights
==========
This release introduces a major overhaul of the command-line interface (CLI) for `mediacurator`, improving usability, maintainability, and flexibility. The CLI now utilizes Python's `argparse` library for enhanced user interaction and support for a broader range of formats.

Dropped Support
===============
- The project has been **renamed** from 'MediaCurator' to 'mediacurator' to standardize naming conventions (all lowercase).
- The CLI API has undergone significant changes, resulting in a new command structure that is not compatible with the old format. The previous and new structures are as follows:

**Before:**

.. code-block:: bash

    mediacurator [list,convert] [-del]
        [-in:any,avi,mkv,wmv,mpg,mp4,m4v,flv,vid,divx,ogm,webm]
        [-filters:fferror,old,lowres,hd,720p,1080p,uhd,mpeg,mpeg4,x264,wmv3,wmv]
        [-out:mkv/mp4,x265/av1]
        [-print:list,formated,verbose]
        [-dirs/-files:"/mnt/media/",,"/mnt/media2/"]


**After:**

.. code-block:: bash

    mediacurator [list convert] [-del/--delete]
        [-i/--inputs any 3gp asf avi divx dv f4v flv gif m2ts m4v mkv mov mp4 mpeg mpg mts ogm ogv rm swf ts vid vob webm wmv]
        [-fl/--filters fferror old lowres hd 720p 1080p uhd mpeg mpeg4 x264 wmv3 wmv]
        [-o/--outputs mkv/mp4 x265/av1]
        [-p/--printop list formatted verbose]
        [-d/--dirs "/mnt/media/" "/mnt/media2/"]
        [-f/--files "file1.ext" "file2.ext"]

Compatibility Notes
====================
- This release includes breaking changes, necessitating the version bump from **0.0.13** to **1.0.1**.

Python Support
--------------
- `mediacurator` has been tested on Python 3.12.6.

FFMPEG Support
--------------
- `mediacurator` has been tested to work with FFMPEG version 7.0.2.

OS Support
----------
- `mediacurator` has been tested to work on various GNU/Linux distributions as well as Windows.

New Features
============
- **Major CLI Overhaul**: Refactored the command-line argument handling to use `argparse`, allowing structured command definitions, built-in help, validation, and error messages.
- **Expanded Format Support**: 
    - **Input Formats**: Added support for a broader range of input formats, including:
        - From: `avi, divx, flv, m4v, mkv, mp4, mpg, ogm, vid, webm, wmv`
        - To: `any, 3gp, asf, avi, divx, dv, f4v, flv, gif, m2ts, m4v, mkv, mov, mp4, mpeg, mpg, mts, ogm, ogv, rm, swf, ts, vid, vob, webm, wmv`
- **CRF Settings**: Introduced CRF (Constant Rate Factor) settings for AV1 and x265 to provide better control over quality and file size.
- **Even Dimensions Handling**: Implemented handling for odd pixel dimensions by adding black pixel padding to ensure even width and height.
- **Improved Output**: Added line breaks in conversion output before each video to enhance readability.

Improvements
============
- **Standardized Metadata Handling**: Standardized audio, subtitle, and metadata copying processes.
- **Enhanced Documentation**: Revamped documentation for clarity and usability, ensuring all sections are consistent in formatting and structure.
- **Legacy Support**: Maintained legacy commands in the updated documentation for backward compatibility.
- **Code Quality**: Refactored redundant code sections and improved error handling for better user feedback.

Changes
=======
- Updated the README and documentation to reflect the new command-line interface and features.
- Removed outdated screenshots and images, and organized legacy images in the documentation.

Deprecations
============
- Deprecated legacy command options that are no longer compatible with the new CLI structure.

Future Changes
==============
- Plan to add more filters for enhanced media management.
- Testing for AV1 support to ensure compatibility with new video codecs.
- Preparing the API for potential GUI development.
